Model Structure

Agents:
    Household:
        We mofidy the Risk Aversion Utility function to incorporate the quality of the good, i.e. greeness. (page 19, eq. 2)
            0) a_i - already incorporates frugality. Lower consumption in general can be the best way to improve Environment.
            1) We can just use cut-off for companies, which is realistic, as some people just do not want to deal with companies with bad known reputation. If it is established that the product is not sustainable. Example: ESG < 50, do not buy. Risks: No good available to consume at some t.
            2) Another strategy is to incorporate utility function so that there is a trade-off in consumption and price. We know that people can substitute sustainability if price is good. But how is a question for the debate, we can try different approaches. The most obvious approach would be to use Cobb-Douglas Utility (x^a*y^b) which combines Wealth/Consumption part and Good Quality (ESG Score), where by changing a and b we can vary how conscious the household is, we can even do it by Pillars. (Currently is only E, can be easily expanded for ESG)
        Opinion Dynamics:
            Based on Deffuant Model with different initializations and variable uncertainty - https://www.jasss.org/19/1/6.html. With slow convergence rate we can see effects of stochastic shocks, generated by ESG factors on people.
    Labor Market:
        We need to keep the trade-off as with goods market. People prefer to work for the ethic employer, but in general they just prefer to work.
            1) W_s (Satisfactory Wage) can vary based on the company which gives it. Based on the value of ESG scores, latest scandals, or pillar score. I believe some linear variable which encompasses how sustainable is household can be used to multiply the W_s. As we can also see cases of working for less money if job is purposeful in the real life. Possible obstacle: We must be sure that formula won't block employment.
    Producers (Both Goods and Energy):
        Main change is that we have to integrate ESG scores. In general, we want to encompass the procedure that companies undergo in the real life - reporting some data, and scores are built upon them.
           
            Environmental Score is easy to obtain, we can just measure GHG, how much of clean energy is used, and how modern and productive is the factory (It all goes to GHG)
            
            As for the Social Score it is not as straightforward. Most of parameters involve race/gender discrimination, workers safety, wages, investment in communities, no slavery in supply chain, etc. It can be seen that these factors need a much more detailed simulation of the whole society. For example investment in communities provides a marketing exposure, supply chain slavery has to come from somewhere, our households are gender neutral, and difference in wages comes from some social norms.
            However, if we simplify the world a little, we can argue that all this encompasses an investment in the company per each worker, their community/safety. Also, we can keep track of salaries, and argue that companies who invest the most into workers has a better social score. Obtaining good S score is expensive, but it can be a best strategy long term. Gini Index can be used for this!

            Governance somewhat follows same logic, as we cannot simulate board and internal code of conduct in company. But it all boils into the investment into company and good practices. However, in comparison with S score which should motivate better talents, bad Governance should generate scandals. Which in turn generates bad publicity (lowers score) and got enforced a fee from government, which company must pay (fixed price in the beginning of turn, beware of bankruptcy and breaking of costs for future payments)

            We assume information reported is truthful. Point is to not assume some companies are more sustainable inhernetly, but to try and motivate the transition, to see which paths are viable

                Ideas:
            We might want to experiment with the supply chain, but it might complicate stuff much more.
            A modification into company discovery loop can be modified to use marketing techniques. Which should push more publicly visible companies higher in the shopping list of customers. (Needs more research, there is a reason why a simple system is used by everyone)
        
    Government:
        Same, but enforces more taxes. We want to especially try: Tax on Goods based of GHG used to produce (should in theory increase prices to consumer and improve environmentally friendly goods). In addition should levy the fines for Corporate Scandals on companies. Can provide subsidies to improve ESG in companies.
    
    International Money Market:
        Same, but might prioritize greener companies.


    Therefore, main points of leverage are: Consciousness of Households, Producers Score (Attract better talent, less legal scrutiny, improved productivity, subsidies).

    Scenarios to research: Subsidy for Sustainable Production vs Taxation on Polluters and Their Goods, Consciousness of People, Companies Sustainability Inherent Incentives. What is the better mechanism?

    Challenges: How to exactly describe Conciousness of Households? Should S and G result in Stochastic Schocks to consumer? Maybe S should be solely for Marketing, G for Scandals/Fees. People only use aggregate score, so that we do not have to go in personal preferences (higher salary vs environemnt etc.), No idea on how to motivate agents on to improving their ESG scores, should they take into accout the future revenue stream, like possibility of receiving grant? Because if for example we only use Salaries as proxy for S score, how would company basically know this? (Ans: We should not implicitly add such parameters, we want to see emerging behavior, i.e. non-sustainable companies just go out of business) We should include it into the decision making, where to get ideas on it? Evolutionary dynamics based on historical consumption? But wouldnt the bridge from this to better working conditions be too far fetched? In Isaak's work it is all based on the cash flows.


        Old questions:
    How would we model the sustainability of consumer, what is the mechanism on household dynamics for sustainability, who and why and if
    Opinion Dynamics, social choice. Opinion dynamics review paper.

    Where do people go, based on the part of society which beliefs.

    Get some references for parameters, like for government expenses

    Statistical physics of social dynamics - Castellano.

    If we have an inherent parameter for behavior description, we can only check boundaries aftrer which it does not move, or destroys the logical dynamics of the economy. Thus, we can check when the extremes happpen or a tipping point. and how to get it.

    Cost of sustainable propaganda for government.